[4564] Restructure Security section (#4612)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/security/index.adoc

for protecting the Jenkins controller from malicious (or just broken) build scripts,
but care needs to be taken for protections to be effective.

Never run builds on the Jenkins controller in production environments.
A build job that uses an agent running on the built-in controller node
has access to Jenkins controller files and configuration, which poses a security risk.
Configuring Jenkins as a distributed system,
where builds execute on agents that are separate from the controller
instead of the built-in node on the controller,
enhances the security of your Jenkins instance
as well as improving its performance and making it more stable.

An agent that executes on the Jenkins controller
may be able to access Jenkins configuration files and the workspaces of other builds.
An agent could also request information
that belongs to other teams or organizations that share the controller.

An agent can also write malicious code to its local disk so that the node is tainted.
For maximum security, run all builds on ephemeral agents in the cloud
that are destroyed at the end of each build job.

NOTE: A job that performs administrative tasks such as backups may run on the controller,

> but be sure to label the executor and only allow it to be used by jobs that specify that label.

Author: See lines 45ff in the controller-isolation.adoc file.  I did not include the syntax that Pipeline authors can use to access a labeled executor.  I figured we didn't want to make this a how-to manual, right?

:sectanchors:
endif::[]

Jenkins is used everywhere -- from workstations on corporate intranets to high-powered servers connected to the public internet.
It is critically important to keep your Jenkins instance secure,both to protect your information and to avoid executing malicious code from your Jenkins instance.

Your Jenkins environment is a fully-distributed build system.
Each network connection is a potential point of entry.
Remember that the code that runs your builds can be perverted to run anything!

Jenkins and the jobs it runs must be able to do almost anything.
This means that a malicious Pipeline could reconfigure the Jenkins instance, delete files, or launch various forms of mischief such as a DDoS attack or a bot.

> In addition to deliberate and direct attacks on your environment, a trusted user could visit an infected web site and accidentally introduce malicious code into the Jenkins instance.

Reviewer: Second paragraph seems to repeat what the first one says?

Author: Did a little rewrite, which is still not perfect.

Jenkins includes configurable features to secure your Jenkins instance against the various security and threat profiles.
The setup wizard enables many of the security options by default,
to ensure that Jenkins is secure.
Other security options involve environment-specific setup and trade-offs and depend on specific use cases supported for individual Jenkins instances.
Configuration options allow you to enable, customize, or disable security features.

[CAUTION]
====
Most Jenkins environments grow over time, requiring their trust models to evolve as the environment grows.
You should schedule regular "check-ups" of your security settings to ensure that they are still appropriate for your instance.
In particular, if you had to disable some of the default protections that Jenkins provides,
perhaps because you were using a plugin that had not been updated to support that protection, you may be able to re-enable that protection to increase the security of your instance.

> ====

Reviewer: Sounds like a concept more like general advice? At least the "caution" reads a bit alarmist.

Author: You are so right!  I moved this into concepts.adoc, which makes this intro read much better and also puts that into a more logical place.

// TODO the following only makes sense on the web site, not the PDF. Can it be disabled there?
// TODO the material below should be moved to other sections in this chapter.

This chapter introduces the various security options available to Jenkins administrators and users, explaining the protections offered, and trade-offs to disabling some of them:

link:concepts-security[Background Concepts]::
Discusses security principles that should guide all your decisions about security

> and explains how Jenkins executes a Pipeline so you understand where intrusions can occur if your security configuration is lax.

Reviewer: I wonder whether we can further split up the entries in this "definition" list into separate subheadings, as the existing ones all discuss a specific feature of Jenkins and its security implications, each having either "this needs configuring" or "this is already safe". The new entries added in this PR don't.

* Concepts seems perpendicular
* Configure Global Security just discusses the UI
* Other Security Topics is just a random catch-all.
* Exposed services and ports

> link:controller-isolation[Distributed Builds]::

Reviewer: This title sounds a lot better, but I'm not sure this matches exactly what the page discusses. You can have distributed builds set up but also build some stuff on the controller directly.

That said, it's nice enough that we should keep this change 😄 Perhaps a new page URL too, and have the former page just be a redirect?

Builds should not be executed on the built-in node, but that is just the beginning:
This section discusses what other steps can be taken to protect the controller from being impacted by running builds. +
*This needs to be configured according to the needs of your environment.*

link:managing-security[Configure Global Security]::
Much of the basic security configuration is implemented on the _Manage Jenkins >> Configure Global Security_ page.
Here you see the fields that are configured on that page and get links to other sections that explain each field in detail.

link:access-control[Jenkins Access Control]::
By default, Jenkins does not allow anonymous access, and a single admin user exists.
This chapter discusses which level of access is provided by permissions and how to safely grant access to more users. +
_This is set up securely by the setup wizard. If the setup wizard is disabled on first launch, this may not be configured securely by default._

> link:tcp-port[TCP Port for InBound Agents]::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:tcp-port[TCP Port for Inbound Agents]::
```

If you are using TCP for inbound agents (previously called JNLP),
you must configure a TCP port to use.
This section discusses how to configure the TCP port and discusses alternative implementations that do not require the TCP port. +

> *The TCP Port is disabled by default and should only be enabled if you need it.*

Reviewer: This reads weird. As an admin knowing very little about distributed builds, I don't know whether I need this and it looks like I shouldn't use it, but why does it exist?

Perhaps this makes sense as a sub-page of Distributed Builds? Or is there value in keeping this top-level reference around?

Author: Agreed -- I just deleted the last sentence.  We say that, if you are using TCP agents for inbound ports, you need to configure the port and this is where you do it.  Enough said, especially for this high-level walk-through.

link:access-control[Jenkins Access Control]::
By default, Jenkins does not allow anonymous access, and a single admin user exists.
This chapter discusses which level of access is provided by permissions and how to safely grant access to more users. +
_This is set up securely by the setup wizard. If the setup wizard is disabled on first launch, this may not be configured securely by default._

link:tcp-port[TCP Port for InBound Agents]::
If you are using TCP for inbound agents (previously called JNLP),
you must configure a TCP port to use.
This section discusses how to configure the TCP port and discusses alternative implementations that do not require the TCP port. +
*The TCP Port is disabled by default and should only be enabled if you need it.*

> == Build Behavior

Reviewer: With a list this long, I liked the previous sub-sections to make it easier to scan. Why did you decide to remove these?

Jenkins includes configurable features to secure your Jenkins instance against the various security and threat profiles.
The setup wizard enables many of the security options by default,
to ensure that Jenkins is secure.
Other security options involve environment-specific setup and trade-offs and depend on specific use cases supported for individual Jenkins instances.
Configuration options allow you to enable, customize, or disable security features.

[CAUTION]
====
Most Jenkins environments grow over time,
requiring their trust models to evolve as the environment grows.
You should schedule regular "check-ups" of your security settings to ensure that they are still appropriate for your instance.
In particular, if you had to disable some of the default protections that Jenkins provides,
perhaps because you were using a plugin that had not been updated to support that protection, you may be able to re-enable that protection to increase the security of your instance.
====

// TODO the following only makes sense on the web site, not the PDF. Can it be disabled there?
// TODO the material below should be moved to other sections in this chapter.

> This chapter introduces the various security options available to Jenkins administrators and users,
> explaining the protections offered, and trade-offs to disabling some of them:

Author: ```suggestion
This chapter introduces the various security options available to Jenkins administrators and users, explaining the protections offered, and trade-offs to disabling some of them:
```

Your Jenkins environment is a fully-distributed build system.
Each network connection is a potential point of entry.
Remember that the code that runs your builds can be perverted to run anything!

Jenkins and the jobs it runs must be able to do almost anything.
This means that a malicious Pipeline could reconfigure the Jenkins instance, delete files, or launch various forms of mischief such as a DDoS attack or a bot.
In addition to deliberate and direct attacks on your environment, a trusted user could visit an infected web site and accidentally introduce malicious code into the Jenkins instance.

Jenkins includes configurable features to secure your Jenkins instance against the various security and threat profiles.
The setup wizard enables many of the security options by default,
to ensure that Jenkins is secure.
Other security options involve environment-specific setup and trade-offs and depend on specific use cases supported for individual Jenkins instances.
Configuration options allow you to enable, customize, or disable security features.

[CAUTION]
====

> Most Jenkins environments grow over time,
> requiring their trust models to evolve as the environment grows.

Author: ```suggestion
Most Jenkins environments grow over time, requiring their trust models to evolve as the environment grows.
```

> You should schedule regular "check-ups" of your security settings
> to ensure that they are still appropriate for your instance.

Author: ```suggestion
You should schedule regular "check-ups" of your security settings to ensure that they are still appropriate for your instance.
```

> In particular, if you had to disable some of the default protections that Jenkins provides,
> perhaps because you were using a plugin that had not been updated to support that protection,
> you may be able to re-enable that protection
> to increase the security of your instance.

Author: ```suggestion
In particular, if you had to disable some of the default protections that Jenkins provides,
perhaps because you were using a plugin that had not been updated to support that protection, you may be able to re-enable that protection to increase the security of your instance.
```

:sectanchors:
endif::[]

Jenkins is used everywhere -- from workstations on corporate intranets to high-powered servers connected to the public internet.
It is critically important to keep your Jenkins instance secure,both to protect your information and to avoid executing malicious code from your Jenkins instance.

Your Jenkins environment is a fully-distributed build system.
Each network connection is a potential point of entry.
Remember that the code that runs your builds can be perverted to run anything!

Jenkins and the jobs it runs must be able to do almost anything.
This means that a malicious Pipeline could reconfigure the Jenkins instance, delete files, or launch various forms of mischief such as a DDoS attack or a bot.
In addition to deliberate and direct attacks on your environment, a trusted user could visit an infected web site and accidentally introduce malicious code into the Jenkins instance.

Jenkins includes configurable features to secure your Jenkins instance
against the various security and threat profiles.
The setup wizard enables many of the security options by default,
to ensure that Jenkins is secure.

> Other security options involve environment-specific setup and trade-offs
> and depend on specific use cases supported for individual Jenkins instances.

Author: ```suggestion
Other security options involve environment-specific setup and trade-offs and depend on specific use cases supported for individual Jenkins instances.
```

:sectanchors:
endif::[]

Jenkins is used everywhere -- from workstations on corporate intranets to high-powered servers connected to the public internet.
It is critically important to keep your Jenkins instance secure,both to protect your information and to avoid executing malicious code from your Jenkins instance.

Your Jenkins environment is a fully-distributed build system.
Each network connection is a potential point of entry.
Remember that the code that runs your builds can be perverted to run anything!

Jenkins and the jobs it runs must be able to do almost anything.
This means that a malicious Pipeline could reconfigure the Jenkins instance, delete files, or launch various forms of mischief such as a DDoS attack or a bot.
In addition to deliberate and direct attacks on your environment,
a trusted user could visit an infected web site
and accidentally introduce malicious code into the Jenkins instance.

> Jenkins includes configurable features to secure your Jenkins instance
> against the various security and threat profiles.

Author: ```suggestion
Jenkins includes configurable features to secure your Jenkins instance against the various security and threat profiles.
```

:sectanchors:
endif::[]

Jenkins is used everywhere -- from workstations on corporate intranets to high-powered servers connected to the public internet.
It is critically important to keep your Jenkins instance secure,both to protect your information and to avoid executing malicious code from your Jenkins instance.

Your Jenkins environment is a fully-distributed build system.
Each network connection is a potential point of entry.
Remember that the code that runs your builds can be perverted to run anything!

Jenkins and the jobs it runs must be able to do almost anything.
This means that a malicious Pipeline could reconfigure the Jenkins instance,
delete files, or launch various forms of mischief
such as a DDoS attack or a bot.

> In addition to deliberate and direct attacks on your environment,
> a trusted user could visit an infected web site
> and accidentally introduce malicious code into the Jenkins instance.

Author: ```suggestion
In addition to deliberate and direct attacks on your environment, a trusted user could visit an infected web site and accidentally introduce malicious code into the Jenkins instance.
```

:sectanchors:
endif::[]

Jenkins is used everywhere -- from workstations on corporate intranets to high-powered servers connected to the public internet.
It is critically important to keep your Jenkins instance secure,
both to protect your information and to avoid executing malicious code from your Jenkins instance.

Your Jenkins environment is a fully-distributed build system.
Each network connection is a potential point of entry.
Remember that the code that runs your builds can be perverted to run anything!

Jenkins and the jobs it runs must be able to do almost anything.

> This means that a malicious Pipeline could reconfigure the Jenkins instance,
> delete files, or launch various forms of mischief
> such as a DDoS attack or a bot.

Author: ```suggestion
This means that a malicious Pipeline could reconfigure the Jenkins instance, delete files, or launch various forms of mischief such as a DDoS attack or a bot.
```

:sectanchors:
endif::[]

> Jenkins is used everywhere -- from workstations on corporate intranets
> to high-powered servers connected to the public internet.

Author: ```suggestion
Jenkins is used everywhere -- from workstations on corporate intranets to high-powered servers connected to the public internet.
```

> It is critically important to keep your Jenkins instance secure,
> both to protect your information and to avoid executing malicious code from your Jenkins instance.

Author: ```suggestion
It is critically important to keep your Jenkins instance secure,both to protect your information and to avoid executing malicious code from your Jenkins instance.
```

perhaps because you were using a plugin that had not been updated to support that protection,
you may be able to re-enable that protection
to increase the security of your instance.
====

// TODO the following only makes sense on the web site, not the PDF. Can it be disabled there?
// TODO the material below should be moved to other sections in this chapter.

This chapter introduces the various security options available to Jenkins administrators and users,
explaining the protections offered, and trade-offs to disabling some of them:

link:concepts-security[Background Concepts]::
Discusses security principles that should guide all your decisions about security
and explains how Jenkins executes a Pipeline so you understand where intrusions can occur if your security configuration is lax.

link:controller-isolation[Distributed Builds]::
Builds should not be executed on the built-in node, but that is just the beginning:
This section discusses what other steps can be taken to protect the controller from being impacted by running builds. +
*This needs to be configured according to the needs of your environment.*

> link:controller-isolation[Configure Global Security]::

Author: I'm not sure of the history here but the current text has controller-isolation[Distributed Builds] and managing-security[Configure Global Security], which is correct and the comment is marked as resolved although it still shows up here.

to ensure that Jenkins is secure.
Other security options involve environment-specific setup and trade-offs and depend on specific use cases supported for individual Jenkins instances.
Configuration options allow you to enable, customize, or disable security features.

[CAUTION]
====
Most Jenkins environments grow over time, requiring their trust models to evolve as the environment grows.
You should schedule regular "check-ups" of your security settings to ensure that they are still appropriate for your instance.
In particular, if you had to disable some of the default protections that Jenkins provides,
perhaps because you were using a plugin that had not been updated to support that protection, you may be able to re-enable that protection to increase the security of your instance.
====

// TODO the following only makes sense on the web site, not the PDF. Can it be disabled there?
// TODO the material below should be moved to other sections in this chapter.

This chapter introduces the various security options available to Jenkins administrators and users, explaining the protections offered, and trade-offs to disabling some of them:

link:concepts-security[Background Concepts]::

> Discusses security principles that should guide all your decisions about security
> and explains how Jenkins executes a Pipeline so you understand where intrusions can occur if your security configuration is lax.

Author: ```suggestion
Discusses security principles that should guide all your decisions about security and explains how Jenkins executes a Pipeline so you understand where intrusions can occur if your security configuration is lax.
```

:sectanchors:
endif::[]

Jenkins is used everywhere -- from workstations on corporate intranets to high-powered servers connected to the public internet.
It is critically important to keep your Jenkins instance secure,both to protect your information and to avoid executing malicious code from your Jenkins instance.

Your Jenkins environment is a fully-distributed build system.
Each network connection is a potential point of entry.

> Remember that the code that runs your builds can be perverted to run anything!
> 
> Jenkins and the jobs it runs must be able to do almost anything.
> This means that a malicious Pipeline could reconfigure the Jenkins instance, delete files, or launch various forms of mischief such as a DDoS attack or a bot.
> In addition to deliberate and direct attacks on your environment, a trusted user could visit an infected web site and accidentally introduce malicious code into the Jenkins instance.

Author: ```suggestion

Jenkins and the jobs it runs must be able to do almost anything, which means that  the code that runs your builds can be perverted to run anything!
For example, a malicious Pipeline could reconfigure the Jenkins instance, delete files, or launch various forms of mischief such as a DDoS attack or a bot.
In addition to deliberate and direct attacks on your environment, a trusted user could visit an infected web site and accidentally introduce malicious code into the Jenkins instance.
```
